Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management, popularly known as GITAM was founded in 1980 by an inspired group of eminent intellectuals and industrialists of Andhra Pradesh led by Dr. M.V.V.S.Murthi, Former Member of Parliament and popular philanthropist. Their mission was to set up a world-class technology and management institution in the picturesque city of Visakhapatnam to impart futuristic and comprehensive professional education of global standards with a high sense of discipline and social relevance in a serene and invigorating environment. The avowed objective of GITAM is to train qualified professionals to shoulder the responsibility of contributing to the development of India as a “Knowledge Society”.

GITAM has been registered as a society under the Societies Registration Act XXXI of 1860. Its registered office is situated at Visakhapatnam in the State of Andhra Pradesh. It is governed by a Governing Body consisting of eminent educationists, industrialists, professionals, experts, etc.

The successful saga of GITAM started with the establishment of a College of Engineering in 1980 offering a few undergraduate engineering programmes. Responding to the expanding needs in the fields of technology, management and pharmacy, a number of colleges and courses have been added to GITAM. All these institutions were established by creating necessary infrastructural facilities in the same campus spread over 100 acres of land. Separate buildings were provided for each institution following the AICTE as well as UGC norms. Over the years, GITAM has earned a high reputation as a premier institute of higher learning and its name has almost become a well-recognized “brand name” for quality education in UG, PG and research programmes in Engineering, Management, Science and Pharmacy disciplines not only in Andhra Pradesh but also in other States and abroad.

GITAM, with its main campus at Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, is a Deemed University recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 in August 2007. After becoming a Deemed University, GITAM has launched many new and innovative UG and PG programmes as well as M.Phil and Ph.D programmes. Today GITAM Visakhapatnam comprises:

GITAM Institute of Technology
GITAM Institute of Science
GITAM Institute of Management
GITAM School of International Business
GITAM Institute of Pharmacy
GITAM School of Architecture
GITAM School of Law
GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research
GITAM School of Nursing
GITAM School of Gandhian Studies
GITAM Centre for Distance Learning (CDL)
In 2009 GITAM started an Off-campus at Hyderabad with the approval of UGC. GITAM Hyderabad Campus comprises the following institutions:

GITAM School of Technology
GITAM Hyderabad Business School
GITAM School of Science
GITAM School of Pharmacy
GITAM School of Architecture
Gandhi School of Humanities and Social Sciences
The Off-campus at Bengaluru was established in 2012. GITAM Bengaluru comprises the following institutions:

GITAM School of Technology
GITAM School of Business - Bengaluru
GITAM School of Science
GITAM is a multi-disciplinary Institution offering varied courses in emerging areas that bear a direct relationship to economic growth and development of the society. Most of the programmes constitute a balanced blend of the conventional courses and career oriented options, although in recent years the tilt is towards introduction of more career oriented options. The curriculum design takes into account the thrust on national development. Interactions within the Institution and with industries have been organized in the past and as a result, new programmes have been launched by the Institution. Courses promoting skills development and value orientation are also offered by the Institution and avenues for experimental learning are being attended. Computer skills have been incorporated as an integral part of the curriculum in many of the programmes offered by the Institution. Issues related to women and other socially disadvantaged groups find a place in post graduate programmes in management and other disciplines.

GITAM has been accredited by NAAC with A+ Grade. Ministry of HRD recognized GITAM as Category ‘1’ University and granted Graded Autonomy. GITAM has also been recognized by UGC as a Research University and accorded 12 B status. GITAM institutions hold the following ISO certifications: ISO-9001:2015 (Quality Mgmt. System) ISO-14001: 2015 (Environmental Mgmt.) ISO-27001: 2013 (Information Security Mgmt.)